In this guide, we are going to discuss basic procedures on how to deploy your react applications in firebase with free hosting.

## Requirements:
- Firebase account is already setup.
- Firebase project has already been created.
- A React Application.

<br>

### Step 1: Install firebase-tools
If you havent installed the  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/firebase-tools">firebase-tools</a> globally yet, install it by running the following in the command line:

**Install Globally:**
<CodeBlock styleName="a11yDark">
npm install -g firebase-tools
</CodeBlock>

You can also check the documentation in their <a href="https://github.com/firebase/firebase-tools">homepage</a>

<br>

### Step 2: Initialize firebase configs for your react application.
Before we could use firebase features in our react application, we have to initialize firebase in our application.

We can do this by running the following in the command line:
<CodeBlock styleName="a11yDark">
firebase init
</CodeBlock>

There will be questions that you need to answer in the cli based on the the features that you want to enable in your application. 

Select all that applies and the config files will be automatically generated in your application's root directory.

<br>

### Step 3: Update the default configs based on your requirements

<br>

**Change `create-react-app` build file directory to the firebase hosting configuration.**

- Open the `firebase.json` file and change the `hosting`'s `public` attribute to `build`
<CodeBlock language="json" styleName="a11yDark">
    {
        "hosting": {
            "public": "build",
        }
    }
</CodeBlock>
- This change will enable firebase to read the files that you intend to host in your firebase project during deployment.

**Add `rewrites` property to the hosting configuration so firebase will be aware of the react-router**
- This is only applicable if you are using <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-router-dom">react-router-dom</a> for handling routes.
- Open the `firebase.json` file and add the `hosting`'s rewrites property.
<CodeBlock language="json" styleName="a11yDark">
{
    "hosting": {
    "rewrites": [ 
        {
            "source": "\*\*",
            "destination": "/index.html"
        } 
    ]
    }
}
</CodeBlock>

This change will enable the usage of react-router-dom in the react application.

<br>

### Step 4: Generate build files for the react application
For react applications which were generated using create-react-app package, there is a built-in npm script that you can use to generate build files for the react application.
<CodeBlock styleName="a11yDark">
npm run build
</CodeBlock>
Run the script and wait for the build files to be generated in the `build` directory.

<br>

### Step 5: Deploy the build files to firebase
Now that the firebase configuration is already set, plus the build files has already been generated, we can now continue to the deployment of our app firebase by running the following script in the command line:
<CodeBlock styleName="a11yDark">
firebase deploy --only hosting:site_name
</CodeBlock>

Taken note of the `site_name` in the script. Make sure to change it to the hostname that you want to use for the deployment.

Given the steps above, you can now able to use firebase to host your react applications.


