So I was searching for an npm library that will enable me to write Markdowns and embed it in my application. I found a couple of libraries but the one that stood out was the <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/markdown-to-jsx">markdown-to-jsx</a> library.

Aside from a high downloads per week, it is also mentioned in the documentation that it is a lightweight library, plus, it enables the developer to embed their custom components to the markdown itself. That is really convenient and also practical for the flow that I am going to use in composing the blog as I am planning to embed gists snippets.

Aside from embedding gist, I can also embed demo of the topic that I am discussing in a specific blog which makes the feature even better for me.

Given the two points, I decided to use the library.

However while using the libary I observed that there is a limitation on how it presents code blocks when it is being converted to jsx. Given this point, since this library enables embedding custom react components to markdown files, I tried search for another library that renders react component catered for displaying code snippets without using github gist.

After searching for like a minute, I found <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-syntax-highlighter">react-syntax-highlighter</a> libary. Using this libary I was able to embed codeblocks to my markdown with custom styling.

**Example:**
<CodeBlock language="js">
console.log("Hello World!");
</CodeBlock>

**Example (a11yDark):**
<CodeBlock language="js" styleName="a11yDark">
console.log("Hello World!");
</CodeBlock>

As you can see, using the syntax highlighter improves the presentation of code by A LOT.

